Add proposal for template renderer (#1280)
php-fig/fig-standards: proposed/template-renderer.md

{
    public function __construct(
        private TemplateRendererInterface $templateRenderer,
        private string $template,
    )

    public function someAction(): string
    {
        $context = [/* load something */]; 
    
        return $this->templateRenderer->render($this->template, $context);
    }
}
```

Example enduser implementation A:

```php
<?php

$controller = new Controller($twig, '@Context/pages/mail.html.twig');
$controller->someAction();
```

Example enduser implementation B:

```php
<?php

$controller = new Controller($blade, 'mail');
$controller->someAction();
```

Example enduser implementation C:

```php
<?php

$controller = new Controller($latte, 'mail.latte');
$controller->someAction();
```

## Interfaces

### TemplateRendererInterface

```php
<?php

namespace Psr\TemplateRenderer;

interface TemplateRendererInterface {
    /**
     * Render the template with the given context data.
     *
     * @param string $template
     * @param array<string, mixed> $context
     *
     * @return string
     */
    public function render(string $template, array $context = []): string;
}
```

### TemplateNotFoundExceptionInterface

```php
<?php

> namespace Psr\TemplateRenderer;
> 

Author: ```suggestion
namespace Psr\TemplateRenderer;

use Throwable;

```

> interface TemplateNotFoundExceptionInterface

Reviewer: ```suggestion
interface TemplateNotFoundExceptionInterface extends InvalidArgumentException
```

Reviewer 2: Interface cannot be extended from a class

Reviewer: > Interface cannot be extended from a class

Oh, sorry. Fix to `Throwable`.

Author: Make sense thx for the suggestion.

Common Interface for Rendering Templates
========================================

This document describes a common interface for template renderers.

The goal set by `TemplateRendererInterface` is to standardize how frameworks, libraries and CMSs

> render their template so that projects are more free to use the template renderer they prefer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
render their templates so that projects are more free to use the template renderer they prefer.
```

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD",
"SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be
interpreted as described in [RFC 2119][].

The word `implementor` in this document is to be interpreted as someone
implementing the `TemplateRendererInterface` in a [template engine][] library.
Users of template renderer are referred to as `user`.
The word `enduser` in this document is to be interpreted as someone using

> a library, framework, cms created by a `user`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
a library, framework, CMS created by a `user`.
```

[RFC 2119]: http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119

## Goal

Having common interfaces for rendering templates allows developers to create libraries that can interact with many frameworks and other libraries in a common fashion.

> Some examples may use the Interface:

Reviewer 3: I think details should be moved to a meta-document.

 - Content Management Systems (Sulu CMS, Drupal, Typo3, Contao CMS, ...)
 - E-Commerce Platforms (Sylius, Spryker)
 - Newsletter/Mail Libraries (Symfony Mailer, Abstractions over Mailchimp and other Newsletter tools) 
 - Anything following ["Separating content from presentation"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Separation_of_content_and_presentation) where the presentation is project specific.

> Some examples may implement the Interface or providing a bridge:

Reviewer 3: Yii has alike interface https://github.com/yiisoft/view/blob/master/src/TemplateRendererInterface.php with the difference that we're passing a rendering context as `$this` for nested template rendering.

Author: Looking at the example it works the same way `->render($template, $params)`: https://github.com/yiisoft/view/blob/master/docs/basic-functionality.md#rendering

That yii uses then in the `template` `$this` is totally fine the TemplateRendererInterface doesn't force how the the variables need to access in the template. If it is `{variable}`, `{{variable}}` or `<?php echo $this->variable ?>` is up to the template renderer.

Thx for mentioning yii will add it also the the list. Please check my details in the PR description about it if I did write nothing wrong about it.

 - Blade (Laravel Framework)
 - Laminas View
 - Latte (Nette Framework)
 - Smarty
 - Sulu CMS
 - Twig (Symfony Framework)
 - Typo3

## Definitions

* **Template** - A string representation of a template.

> * **Context** - A array of context data given into to the rendered template.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Context** - An array of context data given to the rendered template.
```

* **TemplateRenderer** - A service rendering which will render the template with the given context and return the rendered content.

### Template

A template MUST be a string representation of a given template supported by the template renderer. It MAY be a file path
to the template file, but it can also be a virtual name or path supported only by a specific template renderer. The
template is not limited by specific characters by definition but a template renderer MAY support only specific one.

### Context

> A context is MUST be an array of the available variables given to the template renderer. The array keys represent the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A context MUST be an array of the available variables given to the template renderer. The array keys represent the
```

available variables and MUST be typed as string. The array values represent the variables value and can be anything and

> are so typed by mixed. The context SHOULD NOT be an object to support also basic implementation of a template renderer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.
```

### TemplateRenderer

A template renderer is a service object implementing the `TemplateRendererInterface`. It MUST be responsible to render a 
supported template by a OPTIONAL context. It MUST return the rendered content of the template as a string.
If a template was not found by the template renderer, an Exception implementing the `TemplateNotFoundExceptionInterface`
MUST be thrown. The template renderer SHALL NOT in any case output/print/stream something directly to php output.
A implementor of a template renderer is allowed to support as context also an object, but a user is REQUIRED whennusing

> The `TemplateRendererInterface` to give the context as array to support also simple template renderers.

Author: I agree and maybe it did just confuse here and better to remove that sentence about object here. The context will always be a array in the Interface, just the contravariance support of PHP allow that it could also be `array|object` that is something we can not even prevent we just can recommend that it should be always an array. Really thx  for your feedback  and insights about how yii views work, I will have a look at the other comments later.
